src/Bracket_60_3_3/README.md, before:


Scaling can be done with multiple approaches

# Summary of Approaches

## 1 Select and Update ❌
Scale level and hp to appropriate level with SELECT
and UPDATE statements

PROS: EZ
CONS: Data value of spells is not changed

## 2 Autobalancer  ✅ ❔
Set scaling with autobalancer script.
Only autobalance creatures in Naxxramas (mapID: 533)

PROS: Scales all damage and can be tuned with global modifiers
CONS: Hooks apply to all maps and creatures.
Applies scaling of 1.0f to 99.99% of all combat interactions.

## 3 Dump and Scale  ❔

Use data from autobalancer to scale only Naxx25 mobs.

1. dump out all the stats set by autobalancer
2. apply scaling script only to creatures in Naxx.

PROS: Accurate scaling with low overhead
CONS: more work

# Data
some data of Naxx25

## Select non-bosses 
select spawned on map 533
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.rank != 3 AND creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
```

|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|15974|29242|Dread Creeper|
|15975|29241|Carrion Spinner|
|15976|29243|Venom Stalker|
|15977|29229|Poisonous Skitterer|
|15978|30389|Crypt Reaver|
|15979|29286|Tomb Horror|
|15980|29247|Naxxramas Cultist|
|15981|29248|Naxxramas Acolyte|
|16017|29347|Patchwork Golem|
|16018|29353|Bile Retcher|
|16020|29362|Mad Scientist|
|16021|29359|Living Monstrosity|
|16022|29363|Surgical Assistant|
|16024|29355|Embalming Slime|
|16025|29371|Stitched Giant|
|16029|29356|Sludge Belcher|
|16034|29609|Plague Beast|
|16036|29608|Frenzied Bat|
|16037|29603|Plagued Bat|
|16056|29612|Diseased Maggot|
|16057|31542|Rotting Maggot|
|16067|29852|Deathcharger Steed|
|16082|0|Naxxramas Trigger|
|16145|29824|Death Knight Captain|
|16146|29823|Death Knight|
|16154|29831|Risen Squire|
|16156|29833|Dark Touched Warrior|
|16163|29842|Death Knight Cavalier|
|16164|29825|Shade of Naxxramas|
|16165|29828|Necro Knight|
|16167|29835|Bony Construct|
|16168|29576|Stoneskin Gargoyle|
|16193|29837|Skeletal Smith|
|16194|29898|Unholy Axe|
|16215|29899|Unholy Staff|
|16216|29900|Unholy Swords|
|16236|29613|Eye Stalk|
|16243|29575|Plague Slime|
|16244|29574|Infectious Ghoul|
|16297|29601|Mutated Grub|
|16400|0|Toxic Tunnel|
|16447|30097|Plagued Ghoul|
|16980|0|The Lich King|
|29912|0|Obedience Crystal|
|30071|30075|Stitched Colossus|
|30083|30424|Marauding Geist|
|30085|30087|Vigilant Shade|


select present but not set in map 533
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.entry IN (16803, 16505, 16506, 17055, 16027, 16290, 16360, 16981, 16982, 16983, 16984, 16286, 23561, 23562, 23563, 16441, 16124, 16125, 16126, 16127, 16148, 16149, 16150, 16573, 16698);
```
|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|16027|0|Living Poison|
|16573|29256|Crypt Guard|
|16698|29267|Corpse Scarab|
|16505|29273|Naxxramas Follower|
|16506|29274|Naxxramas Worshipper|
|17055|29279|Maexxna Spiderling|
|16290|29388|Fallout Slime|
|16984|29632|Plagued Warrior|
|16983|29633|Plagued Champion|
|16981|29634|Plagued Guardian|
|16982|29635|Plagued Construct|
|16803|29941|Death Knight Understudy|
|16125|29985|Unrelenting Death Knight|
|16126|29986|Unrelenting Rider|
|16124|29987|Unrelenting Trainee|
|16150|29988|Spectral Rider|
|16149|29989|Spectral Horse|
|16148|29990|Spectral Death Knight|
|23561|30016|Soldier of the Frozen Wastes|
|23563|30047|Soul Weaver|
|23562|30049|Unstoppable Abomination|
|16441|30057|Guardian of Icecrown|
|16286|30068|Spore|
|16127|30264|Spectral Trainee|
|16360|30303|Zombie Chow|


`difficulty_entry_1` of non-bosses
```
(29356, 29824, 29823, 29831, 29833, 29842, 29825, 29828, 29835, 29576, 30097, 29837, 29898, 29899, 29900, 29242, 29241, 29243, 29229, 30389, 29286, 29247, 29613, 29248, 29575, 29574, 30075, 30087, 29347, 29353, 29362, 29359, 29363, 29355, 29371, 29609, 29608, 29603, 29601, 29612, 31542, 29852, 30424)
```

`difficulty_entry_1` of non-bosses that are spawned
```
(30047, 30049, 30016, 29279, 29632, 29633, 29635, 29634, 29941, 29267, 29256, 29274, 29273, 30057, 30303, 29388, 30068, 29988, 29989, 29990, 30264, 29986, 29985, 29987)
```

## Select bosses
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.rank = 3 AND creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
```
|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|15931|29373|Grobbulus|
|15932|29417|Gluth|
|15936|29701|Heigan the Unclean|
|15953|29268|Grand Widow Faerlina|
|15954|29615|Noth the Plaguebringer|
|15956|29249|Anub'Rekhan|
|16011|29718|Loatheb|
|16028|29324|Patchwerk|
|16060|29955|Gothik the Harvester|
|16061|29940|Instructor Razuvious|
|15928|29448|Thaddius|
|15952|29278|Maexxna|
|16064|30603|Thane Korth'azz|
|16065|30601|Lady Blaumeux|
|30549|30600|Baron Rivendare|
|16063|30602|Sir Zeliek|
|15989|29991|Sapphiron|
|15990|30061|Kel'Thuzad|

`difficulty_entry_1` of bosses
```
(29373, 29417, 29701, 29268, 29615, 29249, 29718, 29324, 29955, 29940, 29448, 29278, 30603, 30601, 30600, 30602, 29991, 30061)
```

## Comparing mobs acore vs brotalnia db
Select mobs from acore
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.* FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21 AND creature_temp    late.entry != 16980;
 ```

Select mobs  from brotalnia
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = creature.id
```

Select health from acore
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry,creature_template.name, creature_template.entry, creature_template.HealthModifier FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
 ```

Select health from brotalnia
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.armor, creature_template.dmg_min, creature_template.dmg_max, creature_template.name, creature_template.health_min, creature_template.health_max FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = creature.id
```

# Approach 1 details
## Scaling

 Scale trash level health modifier with 1.5
```
UPDATE creature_template SET HealthModifier = HealthModifier * 1.5   WHERE entry IN ();
```
 Scale level
```
UPDATE creature_template SET minlevel = (minlevel - 20)   WHERE entry IN ();
UPDATE creature_template SET maxlevel = (maxlevel - 20)   WHERE entry IN ();
```
Values observed of Naxx10
| Creature | Brotalnia (nax40) | AzerothCore Naxx10 (scaled to lvl60) | modifier| health (pre scaling)|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|Skitterer|15720|10316|2|
|Venom Stalker|94320|61896|12|
|Noth the Plaguebringer|1665500|884400|200|2789000
|Frenzied Bat|10682|7469|1.5|
|Patchwork Golem|88032|56738|11|143000
|Embalming Slime|12208|7967|1.6|20000
|Patchwork|3997200|1713370|310|432200

To set values to Naxx40 levels:
Bosses modifiers x2
Non-bosses modifers x1.5
To scale it to Naxx25 lvl60, scale by x0.5
Conclusion: No scaling needed for HP values after scaling to lvl60

Issue: Spells need scaling

## Approach 2 Details
Naxx25 scaling observed with offset 24, total=25

Autobalancer set to level 60 with offset X

| Creature |	 Brotalnia (naxx40) |	25|	10|
|--|--|--|--|
|Skitterer	|15720|	25791|	8750
|Venom Stalker	|94320|	154000|	52496|
|Noth the Plaguebringer|	1665500|	2766000|	938000|
|Frenzied Bat|	10682|	15475|	5250|
|Patchwork Golem|	88032|	154000|	52496|
|Embalming Slime|	12208|	20000|	7000|
|Patchwork|	3997200|	5343000|	1812000|


# Loot
4H Chest
Deathknight Wing Eye Portal Boss
GUID 65854
ID 181230
Damnation 
40348

gameobject_loot_template 
Entry=25193

reference_loot_template
Reference 34382
Reference 34146



Thaddius loot example found in brotalnia

```
creature_template
    entry 15928
    loot_id 15928
creature_loot_template
    Entry loot_id 15928
    22726 (atiesh)
    30450 ref
       reference_loot_template 
       22353
       22360
       22367
    30451 ref
       22353
       22360
       22367
    30452 ref
       reference_loot_template 
       22801
       22808
       23000
       23001
       23070
```

## Brotalnia data
https://github.com/brotalnia/database
`world_full_14_june_2021.7z`

I setup a stack with Portainer and imported the data. 

Setup a `uploads.ini` (see below) to increase upload size. Go to localhost:8090 and upload SQL to import data.

docker-compose
```
# Use root/example as user/password credentials
version: '3.1'

services:
  db:
    image: mysql
    # NOTE: use of "mysql_native_password" is not recommended: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/upgrading-from-previous-series.html#upgrade-caching-sha2-password
    # (this is just an example, not intended to be a production configuration)
    command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password
    restart: always
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: password
    ports:
      - '3305:3306'

  adminer:
    image: adminer
    restart: always
    volumes:
       - /home/${USER}/scripts/uploads.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/uploads.ini
    ports:
      - 8090:8080
```
```
$ cat uploads.ini
file_uploads = On
upload_max_filesize = 256M
post_max_size = 256M
```

### Some commands
reset instance
```
.instance unbount all
```
go Thaddius
```
.go c 130957
```
4H door
```
.gobject activate 65753
.go c 130961
```
patchwerk
```
.go c 128135
```

Commit message:

Prep to start adding more loot

src/Bracket_60_3_3/README.md, after:


Scaling can be done with multiple approaches

# Summary of Approaches

## 1 Select and Update ❌
Scale level and hp to appropriate level with SELECT
and UPDATE statements

PROS: EZ
CONS: Data value of spells is not changed

## 2 Autobalancer  ✅ ❔
Set scaling with autobalancer script.
Only autobalance creatures in Naxxramas (mapID: 533)

PROS: Scales all damage and can be tuned with global modifiers
CONS: Hooks apply to all maps and creatures.
Applies scaling of 1.0f to 99.99% of all combat interactions.

Progress:
- [x] Allow lvl 60 to enter
- [x] Remove boss loot
- [x] Remove trash loot
- [ ] Scale instance with autobalancer (90% complete)
- [ ] Add 60 Boss Loot (WIP)
- [ ] Add 60 Trash Loot 
- [ ] Add AreaTrigger in EPL to teleport to instance
- [ ] Fix graveyard to EPL
- [ ] Add quests to turn in tokens
- [ ] Attunement requirement
- [-] Scourge event (skip)

## 3 Dump and Scale  ❔

Use data from autobalancer to scale only Naxx25 mobs.

1. dump out all the stats set by autobalancer
2. apply scaling script only to creatures in Naxx.

PROS: Accurate scaling with low overhead
CONS: more work

# Data
some data of Naxx25

## Select non-bosses 
select spawned on map 533
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.rank != 3 AND creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
```

|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|15974|29242|Dread Creeper|
|15975|29241|Carrion Spinner|
|15976|29243|Venom Stalker|
|15977|29229|Poisonous Skitterer|
|15978|30389|Crypt Reaver|
|15979|29286|Tomb Horror|
|15980|29247|Naxxramas Cultist|
|15981|29248|Naxxramas Acolyte|
|16017|29347|Patchwork Golem|
|16018|29353|Bile Retcher|
|16020|29362|Mad Scientist|
|16021|29359|Living Monstrosity|
|16022|29363|Surgical Assistant|
|16024|29355|Embalming Slime|
|16025|29371|Stitched Giant|
|16029|29356|Sludge Belcher|
|16034|29609|Plague Beast|
|16036|29608|Frenzied Bat|
|16037|29603|Plagued Bat|
|16056|29612|Diseased Maggot|
|16057|31542|Rotting Maggot|
|16067|29852|Deathcharger Steed|
|16082|0|Naxxramas Trigger|
|16145|29824|Death Knight Captain|
|16146|29823|Death Knight|
|16154|29831|Risen Squire|
|16156|29833|Dark Touched Warrior|
|16163|29842|Death Knight Cavalier|
|16164|29825|Shade of Naxxramas|
|16165|29828|Necro Knight|
|16167|29835|Bony Construct|
|16168|29576|Stoneskin Gargoyle|
|16193|29837|Skeletal Smith|
|16194|29898|Unholy Axe|
|16215|29899|Unholy Staff|
|16216|29900|Unholy Swords|
|16236|29613|Eye Stalk|
|16243|29575|Plague Slime|
|16244|29574|Infectious Ghoul|
|16297|29601|Mutated Grub|
|16400|0|Toxic Tunnel|
|16447|30097|Plagued Ghoul|
|16980|0|The Lich King|
|29912|0|Obedience Crystal|
|30071|30075|Stitched Colossus|
|30083|30424|Marauding Geist|
|30085|30087|Vigilant Shade|


select present but not set in map 533
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.entry IN (16803, 16505, 16506, 17055, 16027, 16290, 16360, 16981, 16982, 16983, 16984, 16286, 23561, 23562, 23563, 16441, 16124, 16125, 16126, 16127, 16148, 16149, 16150, 16573, 16698);
```
|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|16027|0|Living Poison|
|16573|29256|Crypt Guard|
|16698|29267|Corpse Scarab|
|16505|29273|Naxxramas Follower|
|16506|29274|Naxxramas Worshipper|
|17055|29279|Maexxna Spiderling|
|16290|29388|Fallout Slime|
|16984|29632|Plagued Warrior|
|16983|29633|Plagued Champion|
|16981|29634|Plagued Guardian|
|16982|29635|Plagued Construct|
|16803|29941|Death Knight Understudy|
|16125|29985|Unrelenting Death Knight|
|16126|29986|Unrelenting Rider|
|16124|29987|Unrelenting Trainee|
|16150|29988|Spectral Rider|
|16149|29989|Spectral Horse|
|16148|29990|Spectral Death Knight|
|23561|30016|Soldier of the Frozen Wastes|
|23563|30047|Soul Weaver|
|23562|30049|Unstoppable Abomination|
|16441|30057|Guardian of Icecrown|
|16286|30068|Spore|
|16127|30264|Spectral Trainee|
|16360|30303|Zombie Chow|


`difficulty_entry_1` of non-bosses
```
(29356, 29824, 29823, 29831, 29833, 29842, 29825, 29828, 29835, 29576, 30097, 29837, 29898, 29899, 29900, 29242, 29241, 29243, 29229, 30389, 29286, 29247, 29613, 29248, 29575, 29574, 30075, 30087, 29347, 29353, 29362, 29359, 29363, 29355, 29371, 29609, 29608, 29603, 29601, 29612, 31542, 29852, 30424)
```

`difficulty_entry_1` of non-bosses that are spawned
```
(30047, 30049, 30016, 29279, 29632, 29633, 29635, 29634, 29941, 29267, 29256, 29274, 29273, 30057, 30303, 29388, 30068, 29988, 29989, 29990, 30264, 29986, 29985, 29987)
```

## Select bosses
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.difficulty_entry_1, creature_template.name FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature_template.rank = 3 AND creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
```
|entry|difficulty_entry_1|name|
|-----|------------------|----|
|15931|29373|Grobbulus|
|15932|29417|Gluth|
|15936|29701|Heigan the Unclean|
|15953|29268|Grand Widow Faerlina|
|15954|29615|Noth the Plaguebringer|
|15956|29249|Anub'Rekhan|
|16011|29718|Loatheb|
|16028|29324|Patchwerk|
|16060|29955|Gothik the Harvester|
|16061|29940|Instructor Razuvious|
|15928|29448|Thaddius|
|15952|29278|Maexxna|
|16064|30603|Thane Korth'azz|
|16065|30601|Lady Blaumeux|
|30549|30600|Baron Rivendare|
|16063|30602|Sir Zeliek|
|15989|29991|Sapphiron|
|15990|30061|Kel'Thuzad|

`difficulty_entry_1` of bosses
```
(29373, 29417, 29701, 29268, 29615, 29249, 29718, 29324, 29955, 29940, 29448, 29278, 30603, 30601, 30600, 30602, 29991, 30061)
```

## Comparing mobs acore vs brotalnia db
Select mobs from acore
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.* FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21 AND creature_temp    late.entry != 16980;
 ```

Select mobs  from brotalnia
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = creature.id
```

Select health from acore
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry,creature_template.name, creature_template.entry, creature_template.HealthModifier FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = acore_world.creature.id1 AND creature_template.minlevel > 21;
 ```

Select health from brotalnia
```
SELECT DISTINCT creature_template.entry, creature_template.armor, creature_template.dmg_min, creature_template.dmg_max, creature_template.name, creature_template.health_min, creature_template.health_max FROM creature_template, creature WHERE creature.map = 533 AND creature_template.entry = creature.id
```

# Approach 1 details
## Scaling

 Scale trash level health modifier with 1.5
```
UPDATE creature_template SET HealthModifier = HealthModifier * 1.5   WHERE entry IN ();
```
 Scale level
```
UPDATE creature_template SET minlevel = (minlevel - 20)   WHERE entry IN ();
UPDATE creature_template SET maxlevel = (maxlevel - 20)   WHERE entry IN ();
```
Values observed of Naxx10
| Creature | Brotalnia (nax40) | AzerothCore Naxx10 (scaled to lvl60) | modifier| health (pre scaling)|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|Skitterer|15720|10316|2|
|Venom Stalker|94320|61896|12|
|Noth the Plaguebringer|1665500|884400|200|2789000
|Frenzied Bat|10682|7469|1.5|
|Patchwork Golem|88032|56738|11|143000
|Embalming Slime|12208|7967|1.6|20000
|Patchwork|3997200|1713370|310|432200

To set values to Naxx40 levels:
Bosses modifiers x2
Non-bosses modifers x1.5
To scale it to Naxx25 lvl60, scale by x0.5
Conclusion: No scaling needed for HP values after scaling to lvl60

Issue: Spells need scaling

## Approach 2 Details
Naxx25 scaling observed with offset 24, total=25

Autobalancer set to level 60 with offset X

| Creature |	 Brotalnia (naxx40) |	25|	10|
|--|--|--|--|
|Skitterer	|15720|	25791|	8750
|Venom Stalker	|94320|	154000|	52496|
|Noth the Plaguebringer|	1665500|	2766000|	938000|
|Frenzied Bat|	10682|	15475|	5250|
|Patchwork Golem|	88032|	154000|	52496|
|Embalming Slime|	12208|	20000|	7000|
|Patchwork|	3997200|	5343000|	1812000|


# Loot
4H Chest
Deathknight Wing Eye Portal Boss
GUID 65854
ID 181230
Damnation 
40348

gameobject_loot_template 
Entry=25193

reference_loot_template
Reference 34382
Reference 34146

brotalnia chest gameobject_loot_template
entry=181366
reference 12002 for tokens
reference_loot_template
token 22349

Thaddius loot example found in brotalnia

```
creature_template
    entry 15928
    loot_id 15928
creature_loot_template
    Entry loot_id 15928
    22726 (atiesh)
    30450 ref
       reference_loot_template 
       22353
       22360
       22367
    30451 ref
       22353
       22360
       22367
    30452 ref
       reference_loot_template 
       22801
       22808
       23000
       23001
       23070
```

## Brotalnia data
https://github.com/brotalnia/database
`world_full_14_june_2021.7z`

I setup a stack with Portainer and imported the data. 

Setup a `uploads.ini` (see below) to increase upload size. Go to localhost:8090 and upload SQL to import data.

docker-compose
```
# Use root/example as user/password credentials
version: '3.1'

services:
  db:
    image: mysql
    # NOTE: use of "mysql_native_password" is not recommended: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/upgrading-from-previous-series.html#upgrade-caching-sha2-password
    # (this is just an example, not intended to be a production configuration)
    command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password
    restart: always
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: password
    ports:
      - '3305:3306'

  adminer:
    image: adminer
    restart: always
    volumes:
       - /home/${USER}/scripts/uploads.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/uploads.ini
    ports:
      - 8090:8080
```
```
$ cat uploads.ini
file_uploads = On
upload_max_filesize = 256M
post_max_size = 256M
```

### Some commands
reset instance
```
.instance unbount all
```
go Thaddius
```
.go c 130957
```
4H door
```
.gobject activate 65753
.go c 130961
```
patchwerk
```
.go c 128135
```
